1) the database is organized into the three major tasksa) enter new stuffb) editing old stuffc) search for stuff2) entering new stuff is further organized into a) entering foundational stuff, which includes, genes, alleles, transgenesb) entering more stuff, which includes contributors, coinjection markers, antibiotics and fluorotagsc) adding the main stuff, which includes strains and plasmidsThe database assumes that you're going to spend most of your time editing new stuff, and as a result editing old stuff is just a single button at the bottomThe database assumes you're going to have all the associated foundational and more stuff entries entered first. That is, before you a strain, you should have already entered the associated genes(alleles) and transgenes for that strain. There's currently no way to add these items from the add new strain screen. You'll have to exit back to the start screen and add those items manuallyMost fields are not mandatory. You can leave a lot of stuff out and come back and re-enter them by editing the relevant entry. However, it generally makes sense to add as much as you can.For the genes, enter the gene letters and numbers. You can add the chromosome/comment info now or come back to it later.Clicking cancel to any window brings you back to the home (start) screen. When finish accepting an entry, the "what you have done so far" field populates with a brief description of what you've done.This is critical. If what you see here doesn't match what you just did, immediately take a screenshot and stop making any futher changes to the database. If someone else is also using it, have them stop too until I can take a look and see why the entry failed.For alleles, you need to pick whether the entry has been produced in the lab or came from an external source and if it's external, what its designation will be. Parentheses will automatically be added and the fields try constrain you as much as possible to valid inputs although you won't see a "violation" until click the "Accept" buttonWhen you pick lab-produced, the database shows you the tentative designation. It's tentative because if another user were also adding alleles at the same time, they will see the SAME designation. However, it will accurate for only one user. The other user will get the next one over. The database won't allow two entries to share the same designation no matter what.Transgenes are similar except there's also a choice between extra-chromosomal and integrated. For externally-sourced entries, you'll see the Ex and Is between the transgene letters and numbers. You can also select a contributor . Note this type of dropdown is special. You can start typing the name and the dropdown will automatically filter the entries to show only those that match your text entry.Certain info doesn't make sense for all the possible categories and the screen disable and enable item accordingly. If, however, you have the info for the coinjection marker and plasmids but don't have the Ex parent transgene, click the extra-chromosomal transgen unknown button and it will you enter them here. If you did switch a lab-produced element to an externally-sourced designation, its original designation would be retired and not get reused.